hello and welcome to back to base the
podcast this is our third episode
so part one of our podcast was ourselves
introducing ourselves part two was the
strongest man on the planet now thinking
about the nature of how we run our
business and everything what do you guys
think would be a logical third guessed
things that we've got the strongest man
on the planet as our first guess who
would our second I mean sure the
strongest woman on the planet I would
have actually chosen her as my first
guest I love her but like Gil power
let's not get into that one the most
exciting guest one of our favorite
people in the world one of the most
influential or the most influential epic
Cohen is the most influential woman in
the strength world today definitely
agreed and I'm pretty excited to have
her and actually it's a powerhouse
couple here we've got Steffi and Haden
thank you so much for having us in your
podcast yes so for for those of you who
don't know me I am a professional power
lifter I'm also a physiotherapist and
the co-owner of hybrid performance
method that I started with hayden about
four years ago or so I'm known for
having that really good deadlift working
on having a really good squat in a
really good bench even though no one
really think we just kind of missed out
a couple of things there you are a 25
time world record holder like how could
you not mention that place classes to
across three like what what are the
weight classes let's just talk about how
tiny you are put that in I've been as
small as 114 pounds so that's why
fifty-two kilos yeah
you mean as big si si what is it
sixty kilos because
we competed in that program right but
you were bulking to get there yeah both
for that and then your mini way crosses
56:23
flat we were short we're 5 - I want to
say - but wait so we've painted the
picture of Steffi : now let's paint the
picture of Hayden okay tell us about
yourself item
hey I'm washed-up hockey player turns
power turned weight lifter turn power
lifter and also the co-owner of high
performance met with Steffi so so you
guys I'm looking at you and you guys are
so young I'm gonna ask you what are your
ages guys 28 we were born in the same
year but I like to say she's older than
me I'm still 27 you know we talk a lot
about successful people we speak to a
lot of successful people as well and
something that a lot of them having
comments how long they've been doing
their craft for I'm saying that we hear
a lot of is it takes 10 years to become
an overnight success looking at you is
that you guys are too young to have put
10 years into this so this is what we
want to the bottom of in in this
interview how long have you guys been
doing what you do I know this has been
going for four years ago you said yeah
but that's not that's not when you
started in the industry when did you
guys start doing what you do
Steffi I guess we'd best learn when you
first started playing sports because
you're probably the best known for being
a when did you stop playing sports so
okay I started playing soccer when I was
about eight and you know my entire life
revolved around professional soccer
players age I think 13 or 14 I got into
a national team in Venezuela and played
there for about five years and then
wanted to you know move to the US and go
to school while so pursuing continue
pursuing the dream of becoming a
professional athlete for me that didn't
quite happen because I felt like there
was just so much
my life moving to another country when I
was 17 that I just felt like I couldn't
couldn't juggle both so ever since I
quit playing soccer I was kind of in
this quest trying to look for what the
next thing was for me as far as athletic
wins
I thought he goes because I don't it was
just part of my identity and I was not
ready to give that up so I tried a bunch
of different sports and always stayed
involved in you know at that time I was
in college so I always was involved in
some sort of like Club sports club
whether that was like the Triathlon Club
or the Cross Fit Club or the running
club whatever that was just kind of
trying to find my place trying to find
my my group and ultimately trying to
find a sport that not only I enjoyed but
I could that I could get really good at
you know that I felt like I had the
aptitude for it so there was a lot of
kind of jumping around and trial and
error and experiencing you know both in
the academic side and on the on the
sports side to try to find my place
right so ultimately I ended up joining a
CrossFit gym and that was kind of my
introduction to weightlifting pros
reading and you know I was was I I don't
know 20 so that's yeah the training your
first exposure to lifting weights yeah
that was my first exposure and you know
if it would have been up to me I would
have really quit school and just focused
on personal training and training myself
but you know I'm lucky in hindsight
looking back that my mom kind of pushed
for me to put my education first and not
commit and not put all my all of my eggs
all of the eggs in one basket and you
know can continue prioritizing school
because I think one of the
misconceptions that we have about really
successful people is that their Concord
risk-takers you know that they you know
that they get out of school or her do
you like not get out of school what do
you think was another how you and I
start out drop out drop out yeah
when you drop on it they drop out of
school like Bill Gates like they give
you all of these examples when in
reality and specifically talking about
Bill Gates for example he took a leave
of absence actually so he asked for
permission to take a year off the school
to develop his his his business and so
you know I think that's that's a really
important lesson that I learned which is
you know even though you you know what
you want to do or you kind of have an
idea what you want to become or where
you want to become you still have to
also kind of develop in other ways so
anyway I stayed in school and graduating
with an ecstasy ology degree or
kinesiology degree ended up going to
grad school to get a doctorate in
physical therapy and kind of at the same
time so we're talking about business
like when we got into the industry I
feel like for me I it was always kind of
like in parallel like my my academics
with my own kind of athletic journey and
trying to find a way to insert myself
into kind of the Fitness hub or the
fitness industry but I never know I
never know how to do it and that's where
Hayden came in Hayden had a little bit
more experience he had a three year head
start on building a business and fitness
and meeting him and just seeing the way
seeing what he had done in the way that
he run his business and then having him
kind of like as a as a mentor in some
way was the perfect thing for me because
I had you know I honestly had no idea
how to even get started at that point so
you were already competing in
powerlifting at this point oh there was
a background yeah so after CrossFit I
trained for weightlifting for about four
years pretty seriously you know I even
talked to at the Olympic rings on my
wrist I was really really tight it was a
birthday present for me yeah I was
really committed to you know whatever
the outcome was whether or not I ended
up going to the Olympics
not just a training everyday and and
doing my best independently of what the
outcome was so when did you go from
landing to pound lifting yeah and you
know training for Olympic weightlifting
is so strenuous in your mind like you
need to be so focused and with every
single rep you cannot have fast a snatch
or a clean injury if your mind is in
there 100% that bar is not going off I
feel like we should also say sand with a
lot of power laughs you're gonna get
grumpy about the fact that you said that
but like power lifting is obviously
still very demanding mentally but it's
just a different kind of mentally
demanding right like you can go into a
power lifting session feeling sluggish
and feeling gross and like still grind
out your reps and do squats like that
but it's just not the same with right
yeah it's just weight lifting requires a
little bit more coordination and focus
and if it's not there then you know
there's nothing that you can do exactly
so when I started PT school you know I
had an awful schedule I had to be in
school for eight nine hours a day in
order to train the way I needed to train
to hopefully order the Olympics I have
to do two sessions a day one of which
had to be with my coach who had to like
physically be there and see me so he can
give me feedback and you know correct me
and whatnot
and it was just impossible for me so I
got to a point where I was just not
enjoying training at all but not only
was I not enjoying I was in making
progress and I was just just being my my
head against the wall not because I
wasn't trying but because I think I was
trying too hard you know and it was just
not in the cards for me at that point in
my life and in all aspects - like your
diet was so dialed in like you were so
strict with why you ate you wouldn't
have a beer I remember the first time
that I went to I went to the gym with
forever a bunch of people from the
weightlifting team ordered doughnuts to
remember this you know and staffy was
you know she wanted to make like a good
impression we were just started dating
she didn't want to seem like a real
tight-ass
so she she just like yeah sure I'll have
a doughnut she takes a bite and then I
catch her like I look away and I look
back and I catch her she's over in the
car
and actually you guys do like their nuts
you took us to Dino place no I don't ok
at this point who was your coach like
what did you have a coach or was it all
just within the school so I heard I go
to themes come here see he was the coach
for the national qyn team he moved here
and he was you know just training a few
people out of a gym so you had guidance
from the very beginning at what point
did you see out to take over your own
coaching like I'm doing your own
programming um I don't know I think a
couple of years into powerlifting
initially it was Hayden and then I just
kind of started gravitating towards what
felt right
and then I got advice from a few people
including back soon how old were you
when you went from white lifting to pala
thing I have been in my knee started
then you went into powerlifting and hide
you pushed her for her first
powerlifting mate well at the beginning
there was no intention really to compete
in in powerlifting it was just like
let's do something that will help you
with your strength well you can't really
do weightlifting full-time but then we
went into the gym the first time she
ever did like a sumo deadlift you know
showing her this is like the basics of
it and I'm I'm not like built here sumo
deadlift so I look for garbage when I'm
doing it you know and then her the first
rep she ever does is like perfect it
looks like she's been doing it her whole
life and then let's go up like something
kind of heavy and like see what you can
do and she pulled three plates which in
American numbers is 315
it's 143 kilos her first time ever ever
doing to a dentist and then we were like
oh you definitely need to start
competing in this you know like you're
Hardy
better than 99% of people out there so
at this point was a level of white
lifting will you add so what was your
best clean-and-jerk and snatch at this
point when you when you changed over to
powerlifting when I switched what was it
[Music]
Yolo snatch and they hundred and ten
kilos lenninger there's a good base
level of swipes when you came over to
powerlifting so what are your best lifts
with your powerlifting now no okay so
with powerlifting I have a two thirty
kilo squat a 112 kilo bench and a two 47
kilo your Banshee I feel like is so
underrepresented because you've also
done 110 kilos for a triple you've just
never kind of good together
what did you say the single was 115
one-to-one 12 and a half right two and a
half kilos off and you can do three reps
of it yeah it doesn't it doesn't always
that up like that we all know that okay
so something else so okay these are
great numbers with power I think we're
gonna get to the bottom of that I want
to speak to you guys about your method
with your training within your business
so you guys are obviously called the
hybrid method I want you guys to tell us
what the hybrid method is so ultimately
the hybrid method initially began with
combining all the big weightlifting
powerlifting and functional bodybuilding
that's kind of the core program over the
last few years it has evolved and now we
have 17 different programs to choose
from but the essence of the hybrid
cohort hybrid method remains the same
across all programs so the theory here
is that we believe that strengths should
be the backbone of every single strength
conditioning program that you ever do so
the first kind of the first time when we
realized this was when we started
dissecting and just looking into the way
that Olympic weightlifters trained and
it's the perfect example in order to
understand kind of where we're headed
with the way that we program so for
Olympic weightlifters the traditional
program is nice and clean and jerk and
pull everyday and they treat the snatch
and clean jerk as strength output
movements when in reality there are
skill movements
once you have this skill down you're not
gonna build strength through snatching
clean injury you're gonna build strength
through debt lifting and squat I like to
use the example of like American
football players or you know rugby
player or soccer player where strength
is is something they work on but the
skill is something they practice and
develop right so it's whether you're a
football player or an Olympic
weightlifter or a soccer player baseball
player need to do these records its
strength movements to have general
physical awareness for a sport but the
actual skill is not what you're gaining
that strength you know all players are
getting stronger from running headfirst
into each other they're getting stronger
from the stuff they knew the strength
moves they do in the gym and then they
practice those exactly so that so the
issue here becomes one of over
specificity you know I mean almost
especially in barbell sports like
Olympic weightlifting and even in
powerlifting
it was so obvious especially to us at
America yeah and especially because we
had and it's what we were talking about
the other day that's on American
yeah it's what we were talking about
recently about how you know for four
years that I trained olympic
weightlifting I don't think once I
remarks out my deadlift or or my squat
maybe I'm in four years seriously in
four years I think I maxed out my squad
twice it was my favorite time is a
training blueballs I was being held back
by my coach for four years did you what
am i no and why I mean I didn't know
that I don't know anything about it you
know I
if I needed to did I want to yeah sure
because I will always want to test
myself but I didn't know I was like you
know I was just listening to my coach
I'm like I'm a good athlete but yeah so
you know we had these realization after
both being competitive weight lifters
and and kind of studying how other other
weight lifters train and realize that
the same concept applies across really
any discipline you know where the
priority should be building a really
strong strength base and practicing your
skills outside of that and within that
you know there's there's a few other
concepts that play an important role
which are
general athleticism because I'm part of
it so I call it initially functional
bodybuilding but just ensuring that your
that your programming accordingly not
only for your sport but also for health
so the way that I like to think about it
is in the absence of health there is no
strength you know you you can't try to
get stronger if you're not if you're not
fueling yourself accordingly if you're
not moving well if you're not recovering
well if you're not managing fatigue
right so I think if you focus too much
on the goal you'll lose sight of the big
picture and the big picture is that we
need to stay in the game for a long
period of time so this that that the
entire kind of framing of thinking about
programming changed from being overly
specified and and really kind of like
dialed in with one goal to being able to
incorporate incorporate all the elements
that play a role in performance you know
which is not only your skill but it's
also your strength your mobility your
ability to recover your cardiovascular
health etc yeah so that's that's that's
a good word that you just mentioned
which I wanted to speak about was
cardiovascular health so growing up in
the strength and conditioning world I've
been in the industry for 17 years now
and growing up there was a lot of gurus
out there that were very much suggesting
that a lot of different exercises
combined in one program makes it very
difficult to get good at one thing but
then we look at someone like you who is
a world champion in one which is
powerlifting and and practices so many
different disciplines what is what is
your take on that
before you talk about cardio I want to
ask that next so it's like I guess it's
the discussion of CrossFit CrossFitters
developed a lot of popularity over the
years and it's getting more and more
accepted in the strength worlds but when
it first came out a lot of people
considered it like the best CrossFit
athletes in the world that kind of okay
at everything but not really good at one
thing and when I look at the the hybrid
method it's it's very in my opinion just
from the outside its it takes on many of
the principles of CrossFit is to be good
at a lot of things
what is your take on on that theory that
I was brought up on when you practice
too many things it's hard to get good at
one yet you come out here with with
multiple World Records what is your take
on that so if you imagine kind of you
know let's imagine like a bunch of
different bars on an x axis that
symbolize different characteristics of
of an athlete right so you have your
mobility your endurance your
cardiovascular health your strength
whatever as a crossfitter you're trying
to even out all those bars through just
you know be able to survive any sort of
workout that comes your way you have to
be like good at all of them but not
great at any one particular one whereas
no way that that I think about training
is obviously like you're gonna have just
if you want to be a power lifter you
have to do a lot more strength training
than you would if you wanted to be a
prosthetic right it's just it's a matter
of like choosing which bar needs to go
up right so it in my opinion or in our
opinion strength should always be kind
of a little bit higher and then the
other variables
you know vary depending on what exactly
your goal is you know do you want to be
strong and also be able to run a 5k so I
mean I guess you're there's gonna be
some level of interference there you're
gonna have to dial down your strengths
to pull up your endurance right to a
certain degree but there's also a
component of periodization whereas for
power lifters you're trying to maximize
one of those factors at a particular
time in a competition to prove your
performance whereas with CrossFitters
you're trying to bring up all of those
to the same level and peak all of them
at the same time right about the
appearance ation now all of us it kind
of leads into what pass was going to say
about cardio - yeah you know when you
think about when you think about
periodization and I think the main
concern there a lot of a lot of strength
athletes have when it comes to
introducing not only other movements or
movement
ability but also to vessel training with
cardio it's obviously the concern that
that one will will diminish the gains in
the other or the interference it's
called in scientific terms and you know
the reality is obviously if you're
trying to improve your strengths and
you're doing a peaking block then you're
gonna have to you're gonna have to over
specialize of course like I will never
deny that but what happens so say that
you do your peeking block for for four
months right what happens the other
eight months of the year like what are
you doing yeah I get it's like there's
there some months there maybe you do
more than one competition so maybe eight
months of those of those twelve are
taken with a peaking block but you you
absolutely have to take some time off
beating your body with heavy weights and
attempt to restore a certain level of
human back into you because let's be
real when you're in your peak strength
performance or you know if you're a
power lifter you're in terrible human
shape that's a reality you know you can
science I can vouch for that statically
I can't move right now
I was just training for the competition
and and right now I'm as heavy as I've
ever been on as strong as I've ever been
and I'm I'm as useless as I've everyone
seen it you guys have paid me out enough
about it but yet it's worse it's worse
than ever currently and it's not an
amazing feeling but that's the things
that we face to be good at one thing
forgetting about everything else so
let's just take me for example with
cardiovascular health you know my goal
is to be as good as possible at power
lifter lifting and so anything like
cardiovascular a lot of the studies have
generally done on general population
never really done it athlete at the
highest level like yourself so that's
why I don't really care about the
studies and what I hear so much when I
get the opportunity to speak to someone
like you who's actually doing it and you
know you
say that you perform a lot of
cardiovascular you say you do so many
different exercises let's just say you
to get myself to peak you know as you
said you might be at four months out of
the year won competitions important and
the rest of them you know may not be as
important so let's just say you got
someone like myself who wants to pick
for one great powerlifting competition
that's going to happen once in the year
obviously for the rest of the year do
you think that someone at the highest
level can introduce cardio and it not
interfere with with strength gains and
building muscle mass what are your
thoughts on that
thousand percent because it's it's a
matter of doing the right cardio right
not all not every cardio is has the same
effect on your body right it has to do
with frequency how many times in the
week do you do it how long are your
sessions
what intensity are you are you
performing at what kind of cardio are
you doing so there's a lot of are you
variables it's not I think when people
think about cardio you only think about
running but there's so many other ways
to spike your heart rate and create
positive training adaptations at the
level of the heart so you know and we've
seen a lot of great athletes prove that
too like one that I always love to use
this as an example is Ilya Allen I'm
sure you guys are familiar with arguably
the greatest weightlifter of all time
after every Olympics he takes off
completely from any sort of
weightlifting at all nine months Wow and
all he does at that time is light
running drills little cyclone and this
is how I think about it well introducing
cardio and normal memory ability to make
you a better power lifter the answer is
likely no is yes enough no the answer is
no but it will make you a better barrel
LLL make you a better athlete which in
turn will make you a better power lifter
so if you can push all the way there
yeah exactly there's the yes but he
interprets so yeah you know if in the
offseason you're you can improve your
cardio and your muscle endurance that
means that during the season you'll be
able to train harder train longer and
recover faster because that those are
the
the positive adaptations that come from
doing cardio and in doing higher volume
workouts right you'll be saying that
you're moving in different directions so
now you're jumping you know maybe you're
doing some sprinting maybe you're doing
I don't know you adding some boxing or
whatever now your have better
proprioception you have better awareness
of the way that your body moves in space
you know you're literally like there's
mechanoreceptors proprioceptors
on your joints that can they can sense
the intention and and dimensions in
space that can literally help you lift
better so it's not a direct correlation
and I think that's where a lot of people
get stuck there's a lot of people focus
so much on the quote unquote carryover
or transfer of a particular movement to
the movement they're trying to improve
that they they just get stuck there and
are unable to see the other ways in
which some other form of training can
benefit them so especially when it comes
to when the the take on point here is I
guess one of the biggest problems that
I've faced in my industry with dealing
with people is association with the word
cardio to running you know my advice is
always if you like running you should
run because you should really do what
you enjoy doing and if you want to
compete in an event like a marathon then
you'd better run but if you're using
running for things like burning fat or
because you think it's the best way to
develop then you're not entirely
incorrect because it does have benefits
but it's not necessarily the best way
and there's a lot of different exercises
you can or forms of cardio that you can
perform that will have equal benefit on
your heart to whatever whatever it is
that you think you're trying to achieve
with with cardio so what are your
favorite ways to train your heart so
favorites not the same as optimal so if
it was up to me just my favorite ways
would be just to play sports right get
in to play some flag football like some
baseball soccer or whatever but I think
that you know I think the best ways to
incorporate cardio when it comes to
especially for or specifically to
strength effects would be to
exercises that will benefit you in some
sort of way whether that's for you know
moving your core strength and stability
or improving your single leg stability
or improving your unilateral strength
whatever that is so you know I usually
resort to exercises like lunges or sled
drag sled pushes yo carries kettlebell
swings Russian or American suitcase
carries farmer carries you know
incorporate some strongman into it you
know exercises that that can clearly
benefit you in your strengths movements
but the difference here is that you do
them at a higher volume or the lower
weight and with less rest periods so
that's how you just get your heart rate
up right it's a fine line when we're you
know trying to develop ourselves I look
at you and you know just for the purpose
of people that are listening someone
like you who has a goal to be the best
in the world
what you just said there is a difference
between favorite and optimal so for
someone like you you could say you know
this cardio exercise it might be you
know you might enjoy it but what's gonna
make you better at your sport is this so
you're probably going to choose what is
optimal rather than what you prefer
whereas you know when we're coaching
general population and the majority of
the population in the world I guess it's
more about compliance the best exercise
is the one that you'll do and so it's a
bit of a take-home message that
sometimes when we're looking at some of
the highest level athletes like you're a
huge influence and people will look at
you and said that's their favorite but
you know I'd say without him I know I do
know you but I don't think that I had to
know you to understand that the
exercising to your performance rather
than what you enjoy doing most so it's
definitely it's something that I
encounter a lot with all of our general
population audience wondering you know
it's almost the debate and I hate that
it is a debate but I love the idea of
performing cardio with resistance which
is what you're doing and that's actually
a system that we have in place with all
of our programs actually so we don't
actually call it cardio but from the way
that you're describing it we are
definitely training our heart with
a lot of our training programs not when
I say when I say we I'm not referring to
me I am unfit back you know like I love
to learn from people and speaking to you
guys that you know someone who's
actually done it gives me a lot of
confidence to say you know what far away
from competition you know I can do it
different exercises and it's going to
allow me to achieve my end goal a lot
better but it's it's great to get your
your point of view on that one so thanks
for that can I add something there is
something that I wanted to mention was
about how people think about
periodization you know we think about
periodization as ways to manipulate load
volume intensity and frequency alone and
again that is short-sighted because
although those are the most important
variables or parameters when it comes to
creating a training plan with a goal of
making sound stronger it leaves out the
longevity aspect of training and so I
think we need to have a conversation
people need to have a conversation and
deeper conversation about things that
you need to do in your you know in your
yearly calendar to improve your health
right so it's not only about pure dicing
load frequency and intensity it's also
about okay when in my competition year
when my calendar am I gonna be adding
things that benefit my health right like
when am I gonna add cardio or
conditioning what am I gonna add
mobility when when am I gonna add
leisure sporting like what am I gonna
add things that I enjoy doing and that
I'm not doing to beat my body up you
know and look this is something that I
learned the hard way I learned this I'm
I'm on all a kind of person and I've
been training so hard for the last nine
eight nine years you know so focused on
one goal thinking that I'm invincible
and whenever anyone would tell me oh you
know like it'll eventually be paying for
it I always thought that it will never
happen kind of thing and I think I've
reached a point where we're all that you
know
really high-intensity training with no
breaks finally
caught up to me not in any serious way
but you know how it is that you start
getting like a few nagging aches and
pains that used to go away on their own
now they're not you know where they're
lingering and you know I'm at a point
where where I finally understands that
they kita to on unleashing your top your
ultimate level of performance lies in
the balance of focusing on your goals
and being being nice and caring towards
your body so you know that's something
that I'm doing right now is pointing
outside or putting lifting heavy in the
passenger seat and just focusing on on
doing things that make me feel good you
know the further you get in the sport it
becomes more and more a game of how
little you can do and still get a
positive result right because that's
ultimately what leaves leads to you
being able to recover better and and not
getting injured you know and it's like
yeah yeah it's tough because like
society in general and then especially
within our sport really glorifies like
the grind and working hard being the
hardest worker in the room and and and
equates that to being successful and
sometimes it's like the exact opposite
is really how well are you able to hold
yourself back and not push too hard you
know in order is something that we were
talking about last night it's you know
minimum effective dose versus maximum
and I've always been on the side of
minimum effective dose and by the sounds
of it that's where you guys are coming
from as well and there's so many
different trains of thought out there
and then and then when you compare the
two models and I think that a lot of its
again its interpretation so people
forming the minimum effective dose but
then I look at what they're doing that's
twice the amount of volume to what I'm
doing for example so a lot of it does
come down to interpretation of the
terminology and I think this is where
science gets confused and we look at the
industry leaders and the authorities of
the industry like you guys and
you know we even take what they're doing
and then we translated one way so
minimum effective dose is definitely my
point of view with this with
cardiovascular how would you you know
include this in cardiovascular training
with a power lifter for example he needs
to pick at one time of the year would
you be training your cardiovascular
health all the way through the
competition
how would you period I sit yeah
so I think anything outside of that four
month window is fair game you know I'm
doing pretty much anything that I want
that with with obviously keeping in mind
what my goal is right like I'm not just
[__] off and not doing stuff instead
I'm keeping that in mind but anything
that falls outside of those four months
is is fair game and then it slowly kind
of like I kind of like think about it as
a pyramid you know we're outside of
those four months I'm doing a lot of
different things a lot of different
movements I'm focusing a lot of
different different things and as the
competition comes closer I starts like
removing things slowly removing
different movements removing cardio you
notice I also for for conditioning
sessions a week and it goes to three to
two to one eventually to zero and same
thing for human variability right like I
think at the beginning of those four
months I'm still doing all sorts of
things farming carry suitcase carries
ten of those things whatever and as it
gets closer to months or one month in
I'm only doing squat and deadlift
okay let's talk so you said that you
have 17 programs 17 programs with me
what does the hybrid athlete expect
getting on one of your programs so yeah
we we are we like to call ourselves
really the one-stop shop for all things
fitness so and you know within that we
have 17 different programs we have
anything that's outside of our area
expertise the higher our coach to handle
that program so it comes with that is
we're sort of also in the middle between
having a personalized program and a
templated program because when you sign
up for a program you get the standard
program that everybody gets but because
you have that interaction with the coach
we have the ability to help just
programs as needed if you have questions
about literally anything new through
training we have coaches to answer that
you know if you're peaking for a meet
will help align a program so that your
mock meat falls on the same day as your
competition day all those sort of things
but I think the real value and what we
offer beyond the beyond the program is
just the community you know we have
around 10,000 people on the hybrid
platform and mostly men we're about 70%
men 30% we have a little bit of
everybody but I think the majority of
people that we get are people who may or
may not compete but they come from a
competitive background of some sort you
know they sports in the past or
intermediate intermediate level lifters
who just who want to be you want to take
the training seriously you want guidance
you know and want also flexibility in
their training and you know maybe you
also want to have the option to try
other variations of training you know
throughout the year because I think
especially like a large part of our
demographic is CrossFit athletes or
people who have access to a CrossFit gym
because it has all the things they need
for training and sometimes a place like
Nelly fitness or a good life fitness
club gyms you might not have the stuff
they need is there a difference between
how you train your men and your women I
think that in general you know women can
generally handle more volumen
I think that's probably the biggest
difference but in general we try to not
make a huge distinction between the way
we train men and women I think that we
allow people the ability to
self-regulate within the programs and
they sort of find their own way based on
that and with our additional guidance
where we're able to direct people based
on their individual needs whether they
be male or female
yeah as far as you know physical or
physiological capabilities when
comparing men to women like Hayden said
maybe the biggest one is a woman's
ability to recover faster from higher
volume and higher intensity just their
ability or from training it's probably a
little bit better but maybe that has to
do with the fact that they're handling
lower absolute training loads
I don't know but outside of that you
know where females are perfectly capable
of handling the same the same type of
training on skies I think the main thing
to take into consideration when training
females is exercise selection you know
what are the goals of the person that
you're training I think usually girls
wanna grow bigger legs and bigger butts
and don't want their upper bodies to get
too big or their torsos to get too thick
you know and I think that's where
interesting selection comes into play
controlling selection anyway so we have
a program exactly that's exactly methods
basket trained the way we trained it
does come down to exercise selection we
do focus more on lower body movements
whereas he missed benchpress sorry
yeah for sure I mean we tried to like
originally with a lot of our programs
they came from the way that I trained a
professional boxer which was a male and
he was the Australian middleweight
champion and you know after his
preparation boxing fighter he finally
took his shirt off got in the ring and
he had veins popping out his body was
amazing and I didn't realize yes because
this guy was just cutting weight he had
to get from 80 kilograms to 70 kilograms
and in my opinion with his t-shirt on he
was just getting skinnier and skinnier
so it's like all right what are they
he's a fit guy that's what happens and
then when he took his shirt off like
this guy was jacked and the girls
actually saw this and Denny came to me
she said I want to train like
that guy and that's the interesting
thing so the first program that we've
got Dini on was a a male's boxing
program leading up to a fight and the
results from that we're freakin amazing
you know we posted photos of I mean the
girls continually post photos of their
physiques on on social media and all the
boys are doing what they do you guys
know how it goes but then interestingly
you know that's the program that's what
an entire female model of base body
baits programming is based on it's a
males boxing plan based on a combination
of the strengths and circuits two days
of strength in two days of circuit which
which you know you guys are calling
cardio so so we're doing like cardio
with weights with resistance training
but then it does come down to the
feedback that we get from a lot of our
women is is exactly that from the
aesthetic side of it we want bigger buds
or on bigger legs we want smaller trunk
we want smaller torso and then we have
to factor like that so that sound like
you guys are doing a very similar
approach to what we're doing so we love
your approach with that but then we've
got someone like you Steffi who's gonna
be competing I'm certain that there's
like if you're at the top of the field
there's definitely no other athletes
like yourself in follows the hybrid
method besides yourself so so how would
you train yourself at the highest level
I think there's always gonna be a
difference with how we train general
population and intermediate lifters to
how we do in the highest level athletes
let's compare yourself to another high
level male athlete that's got the same
goal which would be to achieve World
Records in powerlifting would there be a
difference in your approach between
between training to athletes of
different genders at the same level
could I train with you in the gym and do
the same program as you and achieve the
same progression maybe now is currency
but if you look at somebody like draw
Gerald
teeny teeny in tough that's a guy who
does tons of other type stuff you know
yeah I think these conditions were right
yeah that's the aim like your you're not
prepared to train how I train can I can
I train you can I get you to a point
where you can train how high training
absolutely but you know it would it
would have to be a you know programmed
intelligently and kind of around eating
things up you have to take a few steps
backwards yeah I like to like you know I
can tell you one guy who like the same
tiny and toughs Gerald he could he could
train with me he's super condition he's
been you know doing boxing for the last
two years he doesn't done a circuit
training or running whatever like bugs
yeah right I think he could train with
me you competed all the way from 140 to
180 one I'm not sure where all those
records are athletes but did I can see
like yeah it has to do with preparedness
but also with the amount of weight that
you're handling right because this is
something that I always talk about where
we're all made of the same skin bones
tendons ligaments right muscles equally
male and female but you're handling
twice as much as I am in terms of
intensity right so realistically will
you be able to recover from the same
squad session as me in addition to doing
all the other crazy stuff that I do I
don't know probably not you know
independently of how fit you are for it
I just think that the the being of the
body is way too much when it comes to
someone there who's handling a larger
amount of absolute load you know someone
like Dan Bell I don't know it doesn't I
don't think it matters how condition he
is I don't think during a peaking phase
I don't think that he could do all the
other stuff that I do I think he needs
so he really does need to just over
specialize really figure out what the
minimum effective dose is for him and do
nothing else outside of that during
those four week four months and we
actually account for that in our
programs that have a lot of specificity
so if you follow a program like hybrid
powerlifting we're not necessarily
programming in cardio circuits or
metabolic conditioning those are things
that athletes would use the Facebook
group to reach out and ask for guidance
on and we give that
you know where as a program general
fitness program like hybrid 101 that
would be something where we would
include all those things I totally agree
with all that and I and I loved
everything that you're saying a lot of
the things that I I've got a lot of
theories with how I train people and
something that I talk about is is load
is king and a lot of people have their
interpretations and misinterpretations
of that and basically the way that I
define that is the exercise that allows
you to have lift the heaviest loads is
going to give you the best results also
demands the most respect in things like
recovery between sets and recovery
between sessions and this is regardless
of gender so I would say if there's a
100 kilo girl that's squatting 300
kilograms with me she needs the exact
amount of recovery as I do because we're
lifting the same loads and that's
regardless of the gender so it sounds
very much like what we are definitely on
the same page with that a little bit
about women in stress sports obviously
multiple world records you know I've
always participated for some reason I've
always wanted to participate in sports
that are male-dominated I don't know if
it's part of you know me being
rebellious or I don't know why how the
way that my brain is wired I always kind
of want to go against the grain I think
there's no denying it comes down to your
personality with this there's not many
women that I know that have the same
drive to kick another dude's ass for
example but but I know that about you so
I think it's really important I know how
many people look up to you and it's it's
something that I'm always trying to
answer is like do you do what the best
in the world are doing you know what
what are the consequences so it's great
for our audience to hear your
perspective on this we love your
perspective yeah so you know I don't
know I just think that the limit issues
that you perceive are literally set by
yourself not in any single point of my
life have I ever felt like being a
female was was a barrier a barrier of
entry for an industry or barrier of
entry for a sport a barrier of entry for
a group of friends I never felt that way
and I don't know if
stems from just being overly confident
or I don't think so cuz I was never over
I was I wasn't overly confident when I
was younger but I don't know I just
honestly never perceived gender sister
yeah I just never perceived gender as as
a barrier or or a limiting factor so
when it comes to entering powerlifting
lifting weights and muscles in the
fitness industry you know I think that
the you know I didn't come into it with
a big mouth with a loud mouth I came
into it just waiting for my actions to
speak loud right and I remember even
when even when I was a soccer player I
remember thinking something like but it
was something like I just wanted to be
recognized or being known for being the
best soccer player based on my abilities
on the field and I feel like I've taken
that approach to every single other
aspect in my life including power lifter
you know I don't need to have a big
mouth or a loud mouth and on social
media and talk [__] or like be
aggressive I'm just gonna go on the
platform I'm gonna do what I do best
and that's how people are gonna
recognize me and respect me so you know
I did that for several years I showed up
and I and I and I performed and that's
what kind of got me recognition and then
after that I started speaking you know
my thoughts my beliefs and and whatnot
so that's that answers your question
yeah I guess so from the beginning just
to paint a bit of a picture so we like
what your training partners men were
they women like oh I'm spoken about this
before you actually trained pretty much
only men yes has an actual coach so when
you speak about training some of the
biggest and strongest guys in the gym
how did that come about
you know you've watched some of us bang
your head against the wall figuratively
and maybe also literally for a long
enough period of time we're just in like
what do you idiots doing like let me
help you and
like yeah yeah okay can we talk about
your mindset yes I had the pleasure of
being at the vibrant showdown yeah you
were there and I got to witness all of
this and I got to watch you perform and
literally just before you're about to go
break the world record we went out the
back was sitting in the office talking
[__] about nothing what was going
through your mind I walk goes through
your head before you get on the stage
you're so cool calm collected it
actually blew my mind just watching you
before you got up there and broke this
world record yeah I think that stems
from experience you know that the more
the more experience you have going on
you're able to or the more the more you
have a handle on your nerves do you get
nervous I do you buddy it's it's a
positive things for me I think you know
I've been in a few meets where I
happened but I haven't felt nervous and
that's more worrisome to me if you're
not nervous you're not alive like I
don't even feel like I'm there I'm alive
you know nerves mean that you care yeah
and that you're you're a liar you're
having some sort of feeling right so you
know you know I am nervous but at the
same time I'm confident so it's it's a
cost it's a positive nerve kind of thing
let that approach that did he was
talking about that you guys are talking
about you know most likely things that
are unrelated to the sport is that is
that a tactic to calm your nerves or is
that just literally because what's going
through your mind and then you know how
to switch it on and flick that switch
when you need to
is that a tactic I think that was Denny
be a man in place
that was for that me you were you were
cutting so much weight that I think the
most intense part of that whole
competition was just making weight and
after you made weight like the records
were so far below what you are capable
of then it was like she broke all the
records with homers
you went in at what way right so I went
in a 151 I think 50 was the other tasty
point yeah I think 50 point 813 point
something thank you
yeah and I I broke the world records
with the openers so I think that the
opener is what was it like 180 so 184
squat but you you broke it by more I
think you do like 1:9 you some your
opener my doing a 202 or two and a half
was your second attempt squad which was
broken by another 200 so the record was
was 190 and then you broke it at 192 and
a half on your second one you went up to
Keeler's to get to a two and a half
higher and then you missed your third
but okay d1 kilos that is teeny teeny
tiny I remember putting my you walked in
I put my hands around your waist and it
was like this like my fingers most
people don't know about that me is that
stuff wasn't really training either yeah
she was just like she was like the
records are this I think that you know
not like even if I'm not training I'll
be able to hit at least this so she you
like dial it in two weeks out you like
started actually like lifting I think
yeah I had like a week one session I
asked you like a wake out you're like no
I'm not competing and then literally in
seven days before the coffee like what
yes I think that Blair darling me not
being that nervous but I think one
mistake as nervous I think when the
stakes are higher and and literally pull
oh eight out of my ass and I'm a lot
more nervous I think you might have been
one of them the most nervous I've seen
you might have been report Pro rah
because you went up a weight class the
record was lower than in your regular
weight class so you had all this
pressure to like not underperform and I
think it was a good test for you because
it was like it was the ultimate test of
like you shouldn't fail and all the
pressures on you and you still do you
think because it was in your gym as well
you felt more comfortable and yeah right
that's what I that's how I perceived it
so you've obviously achieved so much in
your sport and in business can you share
with our audience some of your top tips
for achieving greatness because you are
so great I would say that focusing on
creating systems and processes over long
periods of time and not overly focusing
on one specific goal because that kind
of feature enables you to that one goal
and doesn't allow you to see like all
the other opportunities that come your
way so you know for me it's been AI I
didn't I had no idea what I wanted to do
with my life and professionally
athletically had no idea all that I knew
was this like very flimsy goal of one
wanting to be a professional athlete
into wanting to be a millionaire those
were my tools how how I was gonna
achieve him or what I was gonna do I had
no idea and the the only thing that I
kind of had full control over was the
things that I did daily in my life so
for me was a lot of focus on personal
development you know I didn't even own a
TV until I met Hayden so 100
my time was spent trying to develop the
skills that I thought it was going to
need in the future right and that
included culture you know travel reading
a ton of books networking meeting people
having mentors you know all these
different things with yeah having that
goal kind of like in the distance but
just focusing every day on the things
that I could do to improve my own self
so if there's just one goal like or one
piece of advice that I could give anyone
would be to stay consistent with the way
that you're developing yourself and you
know don't be too strict with the goal
just focus on creating the habits and
the systems that you need to become
better a little bit better every day can
you guys just I know you guys have just
launched your mind muscle project yeah
so that's that was something that we're
offering to all of our current members
and also any new members who signed up
before May 1st and basically all that is
we're calling it the three years of
mental muscle challenge and the
challenge is that you actually
participate in as much of what we
provide you as possible and what we're
providing to members is every day we're
sending a new email to everyone's inbox
and it's gonna be on a wide variety of
topics all different areas of
self-improvement whether it be fitness
or business or have it building all that
good stuff and it's collaborative effort
from the whole hybrid team so there's a
lot of bits in there from step II
there's something me there's so from
Kaplan or some of our nutrition coaches
and we're just trying to provide people
you know with with some self-development
tools in all different areas in a time
where it's very easy to just be
complacent because you know half the
majority of the world's stuck in precise
our own houses right now yeah yeah no it
sounds great what you're doing with that
so just to finish off do you guys just
want to give us a little rundown of
what's happening for the future of
hybrid Steffie and Hayden what have you
guys got coming up
so I mean we're super pumped right now
about the hybrid Fantasy Factory
even last time we talked to you guys we
talked to you a little bit about it but
it's like it's really really moving now
we've we've scrapped some of the old
stuff that we're gonna do it
so the Fantasy Factory is sort of gonna
be a place for all for us and all of our
staff to go a place that they can be
excited about to you know create content
for us create content for themselves
hang out you know a place for
team-building a place for physical
recovery just got like just an awesome
place where you can have all sorts of
love so so we're gonna have in a twist
no doors are closed yeah it's also part
of it will also be our our print shop
and an apparel warehouse so what we're
gonna have if we can give you like a
sort of like a virtual walkthrough of it
we're going to have a lounge area where
people can hang out you know spot if
there's UFC fight song people can go on
watch do all that cool stuff we
originally wanted to have a basketball
court and pool table like a little
hangout area but step you just went down
this rabbit hole of being obsessed with
anime just kind of dragging me along yes
we're gonna put a ring in there and some
other you know fight type stuff we're
gonna have our offices we're gonna have
Hawaii okay sorry
so we're gonna do one wall that's a cage
one that's a padded wall and then to
that are the ropes so that's quite a
room yeah yeah little bit a little bit
everything so you can practice all the
different stuff yeah our offices we have
sort of like a co-working space for
everyone
works for us so we'll have we have you
know we'll be eight different sections
set up for our team leads and for it you
know other people who'd spawn come work
at kitchen two bathrooms sauna cold
plunge and outdoor you guys lost in
YouTube student YouTube studio podcast
studio can I just say let's just quickly
you mentioned you give you a podcast
hybrid unlimited a little shout out one
of my favorite podcasts of all time
listening to you guys and you're
smashing out so many you put us to shame
you're like one every week it may be
even more yeah hybrid unlimited check it
out guys it's also was five months they
said before all the quarantine stuff
we've been sort of we've been doing all
the things that we can so like ordering
furniture and like trying to get all the
permits that's pretty cool cuz it's
kinda like a little landmark thing now I
love when people walk by you don't you
know we don't even know that that's what
it is and they'll see Stuckey's head and
actually meant to be in Miami right now
for world Strongest Man yeah it was
going to mean I think two weeks time
yeah at my birthday we won't we won't be
coming but we still definitely I'd say
that's our next destination once these
quarantine changing and we're gonna be
allowed to travel from country to
country I'd say that Florida is gonna be
first on our list to come family so
hopefully your new locations gonna be
finished and we get to hang out are we
are we invited Betty there
you have a little bit you're gonna have
a bullet on your face all the time
wherever whenever I couldn't find you
you're asleep on the couch in that wait
can people find you guys if they want to
look for you are you can find me at
Stephie : and pretty much every platform
yeah I'm at Hayden dot bow on Instagram
and then for all things I would related
whether you want to find the podcast our
apparel the gym all that stuff you just
go to the main hybrid histogram high
performance method it's always here you
can find everything and our website is
high performance method thank you so
much for joining us it was great having
you guys on and we can't wait to speak
to you guys soon awesome
[Music]
you